# common-ancestor

### Show the common ancestor directory of a set of pathnames

### Description

Given a list of pathnames, show the common ancestor directory of them all.

### Input

The list of pathnames can come from the command line itself,
or from files containing lists of filenames or from standard input.


### Output

A single directory that is the longest path that is still
an ancestor common to all the given paths.

### Why

List of pathnames that are generated by other programs,
such as `locate` or `find`,
often contain too much detail.

We may be interested in just the top-level directory
of some project, but if we ask `locate`,
it will produce everything underneath that directory,
because they _all_ match.

But, often, for our purposes, everything underneath
does not count.

`common-ancestor` helps to narrow a search to just the
top-level directory.

## Options

--verbose

--debug

--argv

The command-line arguments themselves are the pathnames.
By default, command line arguments are filenames, which are
read as one big list of paths, one path per line.

--exclude  _path_

Exclude a given directory prefix.

This is useful for trimming "noise",
like disk volumes containing backups / mirrors.

--exclude-re  _pattern_

Exclude all paths matching the given (Perl) regular expression.

There can be many `--exclude` and/or `--exclude-re` options


## License

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as
published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the
License, or (at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
Lesser General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

##

-- Guy Shaw

   gshaw@acm.org

